added select doc (#4708)
influxdata/docs-v2: content/influxdb/cloud-iox/select.md

> ---
> title: The SELECT statement
> list_title: The SELECT statement
> description: >
>   Use the SQL SELECT statement to query data from a specific measurement or measurements.
> menu:
>   influxdb_cloud_iox:
>     name: The SELECT statement
>     parent: Explore data using SQL
> weight: 210
> ---

Reviewer: ```suggestion
---
title: SELECT statement
description: >
  Use the SQL `SELECT` statement to query data from a measurement.
menu:
  influxdb_cloud_iox:
    name: SELECT statement
    parent: Explore data using SQL
weight: 210
---
```

> The following examples use data from the NOAA database.  To download the NOAA test data see [NOAA water sample data](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/v2.6/reference/sample-data/#noaa-water-sample-data).
> 
>  Use the `SELECT` statement to query data from a specific measurement or measurements.  The `SELECT` clause is required when querying data in SQL.
> 
> - [Syntax](#syntax)
> - [Examples](#examples)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `SELECT` statement to query data from an InfluxDB measurement.
The `SELECT` clause is required when querying data in SQL.

- [Syntax](#syntax)
- [Examples](#examples)
```

### Syntax

Basic syntax:

```sql
SELECT a, b, "time" FROM <measurement>
```

{{% note %}}
**Note:** The `SELECT` statement **always requires** a `FROM` clause.
{{% /note %}}

The SELECT clause supports the following:

 - `SELECT *` - return all tags, fields and timestamps.
 - `SELECT DISTINCT` to return all distinct (different) values. 
 - `SELECT <"field" or "tag">` - returns a specified field or tag.
 - `SELECT <"field" or "tag">, <"field" or "tag">` - returns more than one tag or field.
 - `SELECT <"field"> AS a `- return the field as the alias.

> ### Examples

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Examples

The following examples use data from the NOAA database. 
To download the NOAA test data see [NOAA water sample data](/influxdb/v2.6/reference/sample-data/#noaa-water-sample-data).
```

> Select all fields, tags and timestamps from a measurement:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Select all fields and tags from a measurement
```

```sql
SELECT * 
  FROM h2o_feet

> ```

Reviewer: ~~~suggestion
```sql
SELECT * FROM h2o_feet
```
~~~

> Results:
> | level description         | location     | time                     | water_level |
> | :------------------------ | :----------- | :----------------------- | :---------- |
> | at or greater than 9 feet | coyote_creek | 2019-09-01T00:00:00.000Z | 9.126144144 |
> | at or greater than 9 feet | coyote_creek | 2019-09-01T00:06:00.000Z |       9.009 |
> | between 6 and 9 feet      | coyote_creek | 2019-09-01T00:12:00.000Z |       8.862 |
> | between 6 and 9 feet      | coyote_creek | 2019-09-01T00:18:00.000Z |       8.714 |
> 
> Note that this is a partial results set. `SELECT *` is the most basic SELECT statement.  The query returns all columns from the measurement `h2o_feet`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< expand-wrapper >}}
{{% expand "View example results" %}}
| level description         | location     | time                     | water_level |
| :------------------------ | :----------- | :----------------------- | :---------- |
| at or greater than 9 feet | coyote_creek | 2019-09-01T00:00:00.000Z | 9.126144144 |
| at or greater than 9 feet | coyote_creek | 2019-09-01T00:06:00.000Z |       9.009 |
| between 6 and 9 feet      | coyote_creek | 2019-09-01T00:12:00.000Z |       8.862 |
| between 6 and 9 feet      | coyote_creek | 2019-09-01T00:18:00.000Z |       8.714 |
{{% /expand %}}
{{< /expand-wrapper >}}
```

> Select specific tags and fields from a measurement:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Select specific tags and fields from a measurement
```

```sql
SELECT "location","water_level" 
FROM "h2o_feet"

> ```

Reviewer: ~~~suggestion
```sql
SELECT "location", "water_level" FROM "h2o_feet"
```
~~~

> Results:
> | location     | water_level |
> | :----------- | :---------- |
> | coyote_creek | 9.126144144 |
> | coyote_creek | 9.009       |
> | coyote_creek | 8.862       |
> | coyote_creek | 8.714       |
> | coyote_creek | 8.547       |
> 
> The query returns the location and water level from the measurement h2o_feet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< expand-wrapper >}}
{{% expand "View example results" %}}
| location     | water_level |
| :----------- | :---------- |
| coyote_creek | 9.126144144 |
| coyote_creek | 9.009       |
| coyote_creek | 8.862       |
| coyote_creek | 8.714       |
| coyote_creek | 8.547       |
{{% /expand %}}
{{< /expand-wrapper >}}
```

Select a field, tag and timestamp from a measurement:

```sql
SELECT "water_level", "location", "time"
FROM "h2o_feet"
```

Results:

| location     | time                     | water_level |
| :----------- | :----------------------- | :---------- |
| coyote_creek | 2019-08-20T00:00:00.000Z | 8.638       |
| coyote_creek | 2019-08-20T00:06:00.000Z | 8.658       |
| coyote_creek | 2019-08-20T00:12:00.000Z | 8.678       |

> The query returns the location, timestamp and water level from the measurement h2o_feet.

Reviewer: ~~~suggestion
### Select a field, tag and timestamp from a measurement

```sql
SELECT "water_level", "location", "time" FROM "h2o_feet"
```

{{< expand-wrapper >}}
{{% expand "View example results" %}}
| location     | time                     | water_level |
| :----------- | :----------------------- | :---------- |
| coyote_creek | 2019-08-20T00:00:00.000Z | 8.638       |
| coyote_creek | 2019-08-20T00:06:00.000Z | 8.658       |
| coyote_creek | 2019-08-20T00:12:00.000Z | 8.678       |
{{% /expand %}}
{{< /expand-wrapper >}}
~~~

Select a field and perform basic arithmetic:

```sql
SELECT ("water_level" * 3) + 5 
  FROM "h2o_feet"
```

Results:
| water_level        |
| :----------------- |
| 30.128             |
| 30.641000000000002 |
| 31.142000000000003 |
| 31.586             |
| 32.027             |
| 32.378432432       |

> The query takes the value of water_level, multiplies it by 3 and adds 5 to the result.

Reviewer: ~~~suggestion
### Select a field and perform basic arithmetic

The following query takes the value of water_level, multiplies it by 3 and adds 5 to the result.

```sql
SELECT ("water_level" * 3) + 5 FROM "h2o_feet"
```

{{< expand-wrapper >}}
{{% expand "View example results" %}}
| water_level        |
| :----------------- |
| 30.128             |
| 30.641000000000002 |
| 31.142000000000003 |
| 31.586             |
| 32.027             |
| 32.378432432       |
{{% /expand %}}
{{< /expand-wrapper >}}
~~~

title: SELECT statement
description: >
  Use the SQL `SELECT` statement to query data from a measurement.
menu:
  influxdb_cloud_iox:
    name: SELECT statement
    parent: Explore data using SQL
weight: 210
---

Use the `SELECT` statement to query data from an InfluxDB measurement.
The `SELECT` clause is required when querying data in SQL.

- [Syntax](#syntax)
- [Examples](#examples)

### Syntax

Basic syntax:

```sql
SELECT a, b, "time" FROM <measurement>
```

{{% note %}}
**Note:** The `SELECT` statement **always requires** a `FROM` clause.
{{% /note %}}

The SELECT clause supports the following:

 - `SELECT *` - return all tags, fields and timestamps.
 - `SELECT DISTINCT` to return all distinct (different) values. 
 - `SELECT <"field" or "tag">` - returns a specified field or tag.
 - `SELECT <"field" or "tag">, <"field" or "tag">` - returns more than one tag or field.
 - `SELECT <"field"> AS a `- return the field as the alias.

## Examples

The following examples use data from the NOAA database. 
To download the NOAA test data see [NOAA water sample data](/influxdb/v2.6/reference/sample-data/#noaa-water-sample-data).

### Select all fields and tags from a measurement

```sql

> SELECT * FROM h2o_feet

Reviewer 2: it might be useful to include `limit 10` to help people avoid selecting some massive result when they copy/paste/modify

```suggestion
SELECT * FROM h2o_feet LIMIT 10
```
